#  $Id: V01.pod,v 1.1 2001/01/21 20:58:39 aigan Exp $  -*-perl-*-

=head1 NAME

RDF::Service::Interface::Base::V01

=head1 SYNOPSIS


=head1 PUBLIC METHODS

See the C<register()> function in order to find out which methods
applies to which namespaces and types.


=head2 connect( $module, $args )

C<$module> is the module name (for example
L<RDF::Service::Interface::Base::V01>). $args is the connection args.
A interface resource URI is created by combinding the $module with the
$args to the form of a uri-escaped querystring.  $args is a hashref.
All args are used in the resource URI except the key 'passwd' that
should be used for authentication.

=head2 create_model( $obj )

Create and returns a model $obj.

=head2 level()

This is used to sort a list of classses such that the most specific
class comes first and C<RDFS:Resource> comes last.  The class has the
value of one more than the highest value of the classes this class is
C<RDFS:subClassOf>.

=head2 desig()

Return a string with a good designation of the resource.  The format
and content will depend on the resoruce type and wether a label or
namespace is defined.  Intended for use in an administration
interface.

=head2 value()

Return the value of a literal in SCALAR format.  Not a referens to a
scalar this time.

=head2 pred()

Return the predicate of the arc.

=head2 subj()

Return the subject of the arc.

=head2 obj()

Return the object of the arc.


=head1 AUTHOR

Jonas Liljegren   E<lt>jonas@paranormal.seE<gt>

    http://jonas.liljegren.org/myself/en/


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Jonas Liljegren.  All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The RDF community, TBL and Stefan Andersson.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=for HTML <a href="../../wraf.html">Wraf</a>

L<RDF::Service>

L<RDF::Service::Interface>
